Rephrase ICRC-28 and -34 (#186)
dfinity/wg-identity-authentication: topics/icrc_34_get_delegation.md

# ICRC-34: Get Delegation

[![Status Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/STATUS-DRAFT-ffcc00.svg)](https://github.com/orgs/dfinity/projects/31)
[![Extension Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/EXTENDS-ICRC--25-ffcc222.svg)](./icrc_25_signer_interaction_standard.md)
[![Standard Issue](https://img.shields.io/badge/ISSUE-ICRC--34-blue?logo=github)](https://github.com/dfinity/wg-identity-authentication/issues/115)

<!-- TOC -->
* [ICRC-34: Get Delegation](#icrc-34-get-delegation)
  * [Summary](#summary)
  * [Method](#method)
  * [Scope (according to the ICRC-25 standard)](#scope-according-to-the-icrc-25-standard)
    * [Example RPC Permission Request](#example-rpc-permission-request)
  * [Requests](#requests)
    * [Example RPC Get Delegation Request](#example-rpc-get-delegation-request)
    * [Example RPC Get Delegation Response (wallet delegation)](#example-rpc-get-delegation-response-wallet-delegation)
    * [Example RPC Get Delegation Response (app-specific delegation)](#example-rpc-get-delegation-response-app-specific-delegation)
  * [Message Processing](#message-processing)
  * [Errors](#errors)
<!-- TOC -->

## Summary

> When a relying party wants to remove wallet approval prompts and sign on behalf of its users, it uses the

Reviewer: See comment above. I think we should talk here about removing interactions with the signer.

below `icrc34_get_delegation` method to obtain a delegation chain.

The delegation chain's identifier may the user's wallet address (Wallet Delegation) or an address meant to be exclusively used 
for the relying party (App-Specific Delegation).

Wallet Delegations **MUST** be restricted by the signer to canister targets that trust the relying party following the 
[ICRC-28](./icrc_28_trusted_origins.md) standard. Doing otherwise would allow malicious actors to steal user assets.

> App-Specific Delegations **MUST** be restricted by the signer to individual relying parties.

Reviewer: As discussed in the working group, we should reconsider calling it app specific. Maybe rp-specific to keep the terminology consistent?

Signers **SHOULD** give users the choice to authenticate with their wallets (if available) or with an app-specific identifier.

> Relying parties **SHOULD** remove targets if they want to isolate users from the rest of the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relying parties **May** remove the targets restriction if they issue an app-specific delegation.
```

Author: Relying parties aren't the ones issuing delegations. Did you mean to apply this to the sentence on signers?

## Method

> **Name and Scope:** `icrc34_get_delegation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Name and Scope:** `icrc34_delegation`
```

**Prerequisite:** ICRC-25 granted permission scope `icrc34_get_delegation` or `*`.

## Scope (according to the [ICRC-25 standard](./icrc_25_signer_interaction_standard.md))

**Scope:** `icrc34_get_delegation`

> **Required Properties:**

Reviewer: This is the wrong section: We are specifying the scope here and not the actual delegation request.

> - `publicKey` (`text` string): An Ed25519 or ECDSA session key as described [here](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#signatures).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `publicKey` (`text` string): A DER encoded public key of a supported signature scheme, as described [here](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#signatures).
```

**Optional Properties:**

> - `targets` (`text` array): A list of target canister ids (textual representation) the scope is restricted to.

Author: What specifically do you mean by if you "get"? Did you mean "if I request" or did you mean "if I receive back from the signer"?
I've updated to: "A list of target canister ids (textual representation) Account Delegations can execute transactions
for on behalf of the user."

- `maxTimeToLive` (`text` array): Expiration of the delegation in nanoseconds, though signer can still choose to
return a delegation with a shorter expiration.

> - `idleOptions`

Author: Removed

### Example RPC Permission Request

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "icrc25_request_permissions",
  "params": {
    "scopes": [
      {
        "method": "icrc34_get_delegation"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> ## Requests

Reviewer: I would structure this the same as e.g. ICRC-49: Have the schema / properties defined in this section, and then the example doesn't need to repeat that but can just be the JSON RPC request.

Author: updated

### Example RPC Get Delegation Request

Requests for a delegation can optionally include `targets`, enabling signers to verify the security of returning a wallet 
delegation (via ICRC-28). Signers in this case **SHOULD** offer users the option to connect to the application with either 

> a wallet delegation (limited to canisters listed in `targets`) or an app-specific delegation (without targets). If the array

Author: Will try "Account Delegation" and "Relying Party Delegation"

of `targets` is empty, signers **SHOULD** only offer users the option to connect with an app-specific delegation.

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "icrc34_get_delegation",
  "params": {
    "publicKey": "MDwwDAYKKwYBBAGDuEMBAgMsAAoAAAAAAGAAJwEB9YN/ErQ8yN+14qewhrU0Hm2rZZ77SrydLsSMRYHoNxM=",
    "targets": [
      "xhy27-fqaaa-aaaao-a2hlq-cai"
    ],
    "maxTimeToLive": "28800000000000"
  }
}
```

### Example RPC Get Delegation Response (wallet delegation)

> `publicKey`: Public key of delegation identity as described in

Reviewer: This should be defined in a proper `Response` section rather than inline with the examples (which now is also duplicated).

the [IC interface specification, signatures section](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#signatures).  

> `delegation`: An array of delegations (as defined by

Reviewer 2: @frederikrothenberger  @dostro  Small detail, looking at other specs, the key should probably be camelcase `signerDelegation`.

> `delegation`: An array of delegations (as defined by

Reviewer: Agreed, thanks for spotting that.

      }
    ]
  }
}

```

## Message Processing

1. The relying party sends a `icrc34_get_delegation` request to the signer.
2. Upon receiving the request, the signer validates whether it can process the message.
    * If the relying party has not been granted the permission to request the action, the signer sends a response with
      an error back to the relying party.
    * The relying party must make sure that the request complies with scope targets restriction.

> 3. If the request includes targets, the signer tries to retrieve and verify the trusted origins according to the [ICRC-28](icrc_28_trusted_origins.md) specification.

Reviewer: The signer should be allowed to skip this step, if it does not offer wallet delegations at all.

Author: Added "may"

    * If the trusted origins cannot be retrieved for any of the given delegations targets or the relying party origin is

>       not within any of the trusted origin lists, the signer does not give users the ability to continue with the wallet delegation.

Author: I would keep all-or-nothing because:
1. The only reason it wouldn't pass is if the app is being malicious or there's a mistake that should be corrected
2. There's more tooling required to keep track of which targets were not included in the returned delegation

> 4. The signer displays all the available delegations the user can continue with, and user selects one.

Author: I think adding **MAY** in a couple locations clears it up well:
If the request includes targets, the signer **MAY** try to retrieve and verify the trusted origins according to the [ICRC-28](icrc_28_trusted_origins.md) specification.
The signer **MAY** display all the available delegations the user can continue with, in which case a user would select one.

> 4. The signer displays all the available delegations the user can continue with, and user selects one.

Author: From WG meeting: signer MUST verify...

  "params": {
    "scopes": [
      {
        "method": "icrc34_delegation"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## icrc25_supported_standards

An ICRC-25 compliant signer must implement the [icrc25_supported_standards](icrc_25_signer_interaction_standard.md#icrc25_supported_standards) method which returns the list of supported standards. 
Any signer implementing ICRC-34 must include a record with the name field equal to "ICRC-34" in that list.

## Request params

- `publicKey` (`text`): A DER encoded public key of a supported signature scheme, as described [here](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#signatures).

> - `targets` (`text` `array` optional): A list of target canister ids (textual representation) Account Delegations can execute transactions

Reviewer 3: If target canisters are mandatory, why is this parameter optional? What's the default?

> Account Delegations **MUST** be restricted by the signer to canister targets that trust the relying party
